Oh suddenly scalding shower
scary sounds you hear at night
overflowing ball without a hole to stop
the mess unexpected snake in your home
yes your toilet has something to do with
all this let's all guilty sitting over
there doesn't it looks kind of flush if
you ask me well it's time to find out
more about the thing you probably use
more often than anything else have a
seat
there's no overflow hole in the toilet
because that extra hole will get clogged
more easily than the main one the drain
at the bottom is an overflow hole
already a curved pipe at the base of a
toilet called s Ben works as a hill the
water can't get over if the ball starts
overflowing the flow itself creates a
siphon effect draining the bowl now very
very rarely a snake can show up in your
ball snakes can get into a toilet
through an opening in the sewer looking
for mice and rats often hiding there
they slither their way within the pipes
and through the s-bend I just told you
about so what would you do if this
happened to you yeah let me know in the
comments below
now flushing cooking grease as well as
all other kitchen scraps down the toilet
will eventually clog the drain bad bad
bad this stuff doesn't separate properly
and congeals sticking to the pipes the
best way is to put cooking grease in
some plastic bottle or a jar with a lid
and throw it in the trash now your
shower gets too hot when someone flushes
the toilet if your plumbing consists of
a trunk and branches debate pipe goes
through the whole building from one end
to the other and small pipes run from it
to get water to individual fixtures
since the tank is filled only with cold
water your shower doesn't get enough of
it to mix with the hot water and wahoo
ah self-flushing toilets the wonder of
the modern world toilet censors know
when to flush using the same infrared
light in detectors as your TV remote
control those detectors emitting a
continuous beam notice when infrared
light is reflected from the user - booth
there's a microchip that controls all
the work and helps reduce the chance of
false activation when someone simply
walks past the toilet toilet water moves
when it's windy in many houses at least
in the US because there's a vent pipe
that goes outside to the roof when the
wind blows really hard above that pipe
the air pressure in it is lowered the
air tries to escape from the pipe
creating a slight suction effect
throughout the plumbing system that gets
the water sloshing if you hear a
whistling sound after you flush or
randomly during the night it means
there's something wrong with a fill
valve the fill valve is responsible for
the amount of water that goes into the
tank after flushing as it ages its
internal parts can deteriorate causing
some strange noises emanating from your
porcelain friend no no other sorts of
strange noises when the weather gets
warm and humid your tank might start
sweating the warm air comes in contact
with a tank filled with cold water and
condensation forms on the outside it can
seriously harm your floor tiles and if
your toilet is old even the bolts
holding the toilet to the floor the
other reason for a damp tank might be a
leaking flapper check your flapper
regularly most European bathrooms use a
wash down system in which water inside
the tank is forced out through water
flowing from the rim of the bowl most
American toilets use a syphonix system
in which the used toilet water is
forcibly drawn down the drain also a
high water line makes it easier to keep
the bowl clean and why American toilets
have so much water in them toilets are
made of porcelain because it's very
smooth so there's no place for particles
to get stuck in the material is
non-porous which makes it a great
protection from bacterial build-up
what's more porcelain doesn't corrode or
oxidize so it lasts longer it's also
easily molded into different shapes
which makes it perfect for tanks
and drains sometimes when you flush the
toilet it keeps running until you jiggle
the handle most likely the toilet flush
handle gets stuck causing the tank
stopper to stay open oiling and
tightening the handle might help if not
then you need to replace it the check if
you have a hidden water leak
drop some food coloring into the tank
wait for 10 minutes and then see if the
water in the ball has changed to that
color
if so then it's time to call your
plumber doors in public toilets don't
reach the floor because it's just
cheaper less material means lower price
it also makes cleaning easier one just
runs a mop under the door without
opening and then closing it the gap lets
you know if the stall is occupied or not
and finally if you're out of toilet
paper
a neighbor can help you out some toilets
refill quickly and you can flush again
immediately if you need to while others
take much longer if you have a good hose
with high pressure your tank gets full
fast
if your hose is a bit silted you'll have
to wait also living on a higher floor or
far away from the water supply makes it
more difficult to pump water to your
tank if your toilet flushes slowly there
might be something wrong with the flush
mechanism
Banting or a blockage in the waste line
without quick flushing the movement
won't create the suction in the pipe
that washes the waste down the drain you
might never forget about cleaning and
flushing the toilet but those nasty
stains can still appear in your bowl
they were build up from minerals hard
water is rich in you can try to get rid
of them using vinegar just pour it in
the bowl and scrub with a toilet brush
if you flush with the lid up tiniest
particles of everything that's in the
ball can fly up to 15 feet in the air
and land all over your bathroom those
particles might carry infectious
bacteria that are potentially harmful
for your health so save yourself and put
the lid down the blue water from the
drop-in tank toilet pressures might look
great but most plumbers say they're bad
for your toilet
the chemicals in those tablets can wear
out
working parts inside the tank and when
they break down their parts might
prevent the toilet from flushing that
gap on the seat that makes it look like
the letter U is there because of
plumbing codes according to them since
1995 all public toilets must have an
open seat the gap also protects your
most private areas from unwanted
droplets hey thanks for that those
toilet seat covers don't actually save
you from germs since they're absorbent
bacteria and viruses are super small so
they easily soak in through the paper
the covers are made of but here's the
good news
catching an infection from a toilet seat
is only possible if your skin is broken
and comes into direct contact with the
seat toilets with two flush buttons work
like this
the big button flushes the full tank the
smaller one flushes half a tank to save
water for an easier and quicker way of
identifying which button to push the
mechanism was later modified pressing
the button for a short amount of time
gives a half flush and a longer push
gives a full flush even though toilet
paper is supposed to break down when it
gets wet some public bathrooms tell you
not to flush it there's still a
possibility of clogging if you use way
too much toilet paper or the plumbing
system isn't new so if you see such a
sign just do as you're told and use the
bin finally we thought we'd give the
toilets an opportunity to tell their
side of the story you can just imagine
the stories they must have sadly for
them the view never changes but so far
we've heard nothing all we can say to
our friend the toilet is tanks a lot